.TH "EGTOOLS" "7" "September 2016" "EG" "EGTOOLS"
.
.SH "NAME"
\fBpbhier\fR - Overview of $HOME/ directory hierarchy
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.
.P
Except for a few places, this is for both home and work
.P
.I myconfig
.RS 8
Environment variables for EG tools; should be sourced by .bashrc or .bash_profile
.RE
.P
.I .{anything}/
.RS 8
Anything with a "." in front means "do not mess with it"
.RE
.P
.I .egmoney/
.RS 8
My EGMoney database.
.RE
.P
.I Archives/
.RS 8
Saved tarballs, iso's, etc.
.RE
.P
.I Backup/
.RS 8
Old SVN repository dumps.  To be phased out.
.RE
.P
.I Clutter/
.RS 8
When things get out of hand.
.RE
.P
.I Documents/
.RS 8
As in not source code, pictures (except where used for databases, etc.),
or things that aren't documents
.P
.I art/
.RS 8
My art database, on home computers only
.P
.I Readme.txt
.RS 8
Wherein lies further discussion of this directory
.RE
.P
.I art.db
.RS 8
Binary database for artwork
.RE
.P
.I art.csv
.RS 8
text database for artwork, until I get the binary version working
.RE
.P
.I NNN/
.RS 8
(number of artwork) directory containing photo of artwork and any notes
not contained in the db file
.RE
.RE
.P
.I books/
.RS 8
Books or long writings in .txt or .pdf form.
.RE
.P
.I chess/
.RS 8
Stored chess games, in .pgn form
.RE
.P
.I Equities/
.RS 8
Temporary directory to dump recent 10-K filings, quarterly reports, etc.
.RE
.P
.I info/
.RS 8
Like books/, except in shorter form.
.P
.I cheet/
.RS 8
cheet sheets: look-up tables, etc.
.RE
.P
.I specs/
.RS 8
Specifications like POSIX, RFCs, etc.
.RE
.P
.I fun/
.RS 8
Unimportant stuff I want to keep.
.RE
.P
.I manuals/
.RS 8
Even more like books/, except specifically for user manuals, or CD manual
kits.  Also englib stuff like software cookbooks.
.RE
.RE
.P
.I letters/
.RS 8
Saved old emails
.RE
.P
.I recipes/
.RS 8
\fBhome\fR computer: cooking recipes
.br
\fBwork\fR computer: Software cookbooks (not manuals).  These can go int
\fIinfo/manuals/\fR on home computers.
.RE
.P
.I records/
.RS 8
Leases, receipts I want to keep long-term, etc.
.P
.I taxes/fyXX/
.RS 8
Tax records, where XX is the year
.RE
.RE
.P
.I writings/
.RS 8
My blogs, novels, and other masterpieces that I will
certainly one day finish.
.RE
.RE
.P
.I Downloads/
.RS 8
Keep this clean and uncluttered.
.RE
.P
.I Dropbox/
.RS 8
When possible, always kept as an immediate subdirectory of $HOME
.P
.I .todo
.br
.I .worktodo
.RS 8
My devtodo databases, XML files.  \fI.worktodo\fR is specifically
work-related.
.RE
.P
.I reading_list.txt
.RS 8
My reading list
.RE
.P
.I Work/
.RS 8
Temporary work-related files, whose links can be given to faithful
customers
.RE
.P
.I hub/
.RS 8
My subversion repository - DO NOT TOUCH!!!
.RE
.P
.I releases/
.RS 8
Tagged versions of things like eglib, etc.  Deprecated.
.RE
.P
.I unix/
.RS 8
old-school unix sources
.RE
.P
.I wp/
.RS 8
Wallpapers that I like enough to share between home PC and work PC
.RE
.P
.I tmp/
.RS 8
Files intended for easy copy from one machine to another, when scp or
email won't do.  Keep this clean
.RE
.RE
.P
.I Music/playlists/
.RS 8
Editable playlists, to export/import from/to iTunes or mplayer
.RE
.P
.I Pictures/
.RS 8
Needs some severe cleanup.  What follows is what will be true when it's
actually cleaned.
.P
\fI"Photos Library.photoslibrary"/\fR
.RS 8
My one true pristine library.
.RE
.P
.I illustrations/
.RS 8
Adobe Photoshop projects, each project with its own subdirectory
.TP
.I inspiration/
Whatever inspires me to do great things
.RE
.P
.I scans/
.RS 8
Temporary scans, before they are imported into \fIPhotos
Library.photoslibrary\fR
.RE
.P
.I spool/work/
.RS 8
Files exported from Photos Library.photoslibrary for editing or
formatting before printing.
.RE
.P
.I spool/print/
.RS 8
Files from spool/work/ waiting to be printed.
.RE
.P
.I webphotos/
.RS 8
Photos not taken by me or an acquaintance.
.RE
.P
.I wp/
.RS 8
Wallpaper photos
.RE
.RE
.P
.I projects/
.RS 8
On work computers, this is where to store non-source material for each
project.  Subdirectories are named
.IR v545 ", " t680 ", etc."
.P
TIP: Use rsync -r to keep this sync'd on computers at work.
.RE
.P
.I bin/
.I share/
.I lib/
.I include/
.RS 8
Typical hierarchy for programs, but with $HOME as prefix
.RE
.P
.I src/
.RS 8
Working copies of source code
.RE
.P
.I egdb/
.RS 8
Work in progress.
.RE
.P
.I tmp/
.RS 8
Directory where programs can create and destroy temporary files
.P
.I build_diffs/
.RS 8
Folder to place two source trees for easy diffing.
.RE
